Add guide for setting up php codespaces (#25720)
github/docs: content/codespaces/setting-up-your-project-for-codespaces/adding-a-dev-container-configuration/setting-up-your-php-project-for-codespaces.md

  "forwardPorts": [
    8080
  ],
  "features": {
    "ghcr.io/devcontainers/features/github-cli:1": {}
  }

  // Use 'postCreateCommand' to run commands after the container is created.
  // "postCreateCommand": "sudo chmod a+x \"$(pwd)\" && sudo rm -rf /var/www/html && sudo ln -s \"$(pwd)\" /var/www/html"

  // Uncomment to connect as root instead. More info: https://aka.ms/dev-containers-non-root.
  // "remoteUser": "root"
}
```

{% data reusables.codespaces.devcontainer-properties-1 %}
{% data reusables.codespaces.devcontainer-properties-2 %}
{% data reusables.codespaces.additional-container-config %}

## Step 3: Modify your devcontainer.json file

With your dev container configuration added and a basic understanding of what everything does, you can now make changes to customize your environment further. In this example, you'll add properties that will:

* Run `composer install`, after the dev container is created, to install the dependencies listed in a `composer.json` file.
* Automatically install a {% data variables.product.prodname_vscode_shortname %} extension in this codespace.

1. In the `devcontainer.json` file, delete the two commented-out lines about features:

>    ```json{:copy}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```json
```

   // Features to add to the dev container. More info: https://containers.dev/features.
   // "features": {},
   ```

1. Edit the `customizations` property as follows to install the "Composer" extension.

>    ```json{:copy}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```json copy
```

   // Configure tool-specific properties.
   "customizations": {
     // Configure properties specific to VS Code.
     "vscode": {
       "extensions": [
         "ikappas.composer"
       ]
     }
   },
   ```

1. Add a comma after the `features` property.

>    ```json{:copy}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```json
```

   "features": {
     "ghcr.io/devcontainers/features/github-cli:1": {}
   },
   ```

1. Uncomment the `postCreateCommand` property and change its value to run the command `composer install` if the `composer.json` file exists.

>    ```json{:copy}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```json copy
```

     // Configure tool-specific properties.
     "customizations": {
       // Configure properties specific to VS Code.
       "vscode": {
         "extensions": [
           "ikappas.composer"
         ]
       }
     },

     // Use 'forwardPorts' to make a list of ports inside the container available locally.
     "forwardPorts": [
       8080
     ],
     "features": {
       "ghcr.io/devcontainers/features/github-cli:1": {}
     },

     // Use 'postCreateCommand' to run commands after the container is created.
     "postCreateCommand": "if [ -f composer.json ];then composer install;fi"

     // Uncomment to connect as root instead. More info: https://aka.ms/dev-containers-non-root.
     // "remoteUser": "root"
   }
   ```

{% data reusables.codespaces.save-changes %}
{% data reusables.codespaces.rebuild-command %}
{% indented_data_reference reusables.codespaces.rebuild-reason %}

   After the dev container is rebuilt, and your codespace becomes available again, the `postCreateCommand` will have been run, installing your Composer dependencies, and the "Composer" extension will be available for use.

## Step 4: Run your application

> In the previous section, you used the `postCreateCommand` to install a set of packages via the `composer install` command. With the dependencies now installed, you can run the application. However, in this scenario we first need to tweak the ports that Apache will listen on. By default, it is configured to use port 80, but in Codespaces, that port is not available -- so we will use port 8080 instead.

Reviewer: I think we shouldn't use the informal "tweak", and I'd like to suggest a couple of other changes here:

```suggestion
In the previous section, you used the `postCreateCommand` to install a set of packages via the `composer install` command. With the dependencies now installed, you can run the application. However, in this scenario we first need to change the ports that Apache will listen on. We're forwarding port 8080, so we'll instruct Apache to use this port rather than the default port 80.
```

> 1. In the Terminal of your codespace, enter `sudo sed -i 's/Listen 80$//' /etc/apache2/ports.conf`.
> 
> 1. Still in the Terminal, enter `sudo sed -i 's/80/8080/' /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf`.
> 
> 1. And finally, in the Terminal, enter `apache2ctl start`.

Reviewer: It would be good to make these commands copiable:

````suggestion
1. In the Terminal of your codespace, enter:

```shell
sudo sed -i 's/Listen 80$//' /etc/apache2/ports.conf
```

1. Then, enter:

```shell
sudo sed -i 's/80/8080/' /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf
```

1. Then start the Apache control interface:

```shell
apache2ctl start
```
````

> 

Reviewer: When I run `apache2ctl start` I get:

```
AH00558: apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.0.1. Set the 'ServerName' directive globally to suppress this message
```

We should either mention this, or add something to prevent it being displayed.

> 1. When your project starts, you should see a "toast" notification message at the bottom right corner of {% data variables.product.prodname_vscode_shortname %}, telling you that your application is available on a forwarded port. To view the running application, click **Open in Browser**.

Reviewer: When I browse to the web page I get:

> **Forbidden**
> 
> You don't have permission to access this resource.
> 
> Apache/2.4.56 (Debian) Server at localhost Port 8080

     "postCreateCommand": "sudo chmod a+x \"$(pwd)\" && sudo rm -rf /var/www/html && sudo ln -s \"$(pwd)\" /var/www/html; if [ -f composer.json ];then composer install;fi"

     // Uncomment to connect as root instead. More info: https://aka.ms/dev-containers-non-root.
     // "remoteUser": "root"
   }
   ```

{% data reusables.codespaces.save-changes %}
{% data reusables.codespaces.rebuild-command %}
{% indented_data_reference reusables.codespaces.rebuild-reason %}

   After the dev container is rebuilt, and your codespace becomes available again, the `postCreateCommand` will have been run, installing any Composer dependencies, and the "Composer" extension will be available for use.

## Step 4: Run your application

In the previous section, you modified the `postCreateCommand` to install a set of packages via the `composer install` command. With the dependencies now installed, you can run the application. However, in this scenario we first need to change the ports that Apache will listen on. We're forwarding port 8080, so we'll instruct Apache to use this port rather than the default port 80.

1. In the Terminal of your codespace, enter:

>    ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```shell copy
```

   sudo sed -i 's/Listen 80$//' /etc/apache2/ports.conf
   ```

1. Then, enter:

>    ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```shell copy
```

   sudo sed -i 's/<VirtualHost \*:80>/ServerName 127.0.0.1\n<VirtualHost \*:8080>/' /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf
   ```

1. Then start Apache using its control tool:

>    ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```shell copy
```

      ]
    }
  },

  // Use 'forwardPorts' to make a list of ports inside the container available locally.
  // "forwardPorts": [8000],

  // Use 'portsAttributes' to set default properties for specific forwarded ports. More info: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/devcontainerjson-reference.
  "portsAttributes": {
    "8000": {
      "label": "Hello Remote World",
      "onAutoForward": "notify"
    }
  }

  // Use 'postCreateCommand' to run commands after the container is created.
  // "postCreateCommand": "sudo chmod a+x \"$(pwd)\" && sudo rm -rf /var/www/html && sudo ln -s \"$(pwd)\" /var/www/html",

  // Uncomment to connect as root instead. More info: https://aka.ms/dev-containers-non-root.
  // "remoteUser": "root"
}
```

{% data reusables.codespaces.devcontainer-properties-1 %}
{% data reusables.codespaces.devcontainer-properties-2 %}
{% data reusables.codespaces.additional-container-config %}

## Step 3: Modify your devcontainer.json file

With your dev container configuration added and a basic understanding of what everything does, you can now make changes to customize your environment further. In this example, you'll add properties that will:

> * Run `composer install`, after the dev container is created, to install the dependencies listed in the `composer.json` file.

Reviewer: I don't follow the reference to a `composer.json` file here. There is no such file in the codespace.

* Automatically install a {% data variables.product.prodname_vscode_shortname %} extension in this codespace.

1. In the `devcontainer.json` file, add a comma after the `portsAttributes` property.

   ```json{:copy}
   // Use 'portsAttributes' to set default properties for specific forwarded ports. More info: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/devcontainerjson-reference.
     "portsAttributes": {
       "8000": {
         "label": "Hello Remote World",
         "onAutoForward": "notify"
       }
   },
   ```

1. Uncomment the `postCreateCommand` property and assign it the command `composer install`.

   ```json{:copy}
   // Use 'postCreateCommand' to run commands after the container is created.
   "postCreateCommand": "composer install",
   ```

1. Edit the `customizations` property as follows to install the "Composer" extension.

   ```json{:copy}
   // Configure tool-specific properties.
   "customizations": {
     // Configure properties specific to VS Code.
     "vscode": {
       "settings": {},
       "extensions": [
         "streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker",
         "ikappas.composer"
       ]
     }
   },

>    ```

Reviewer: I think this should follow the file in top-down order of things that need changed:

1. In the `devcontainer.json` file, delete the two commented-out lines about features: 

   ```json
   // Features to add to the dev container. More info: https://containers.dev/features.
   // "features": {},
   ```

1. Edit the `customizations` property as follows to install the "Composer" extension.

   ```json{:copy}
   // Configure tool-specific properties.
   "customizations": {
     // Configure properties specific to VS Code.
     "vscode": {
       "extensions": [
         "ikappas.composer"
       ]
     }
   },
   ```

1. Add a comma after the `features` property.

   ```json{:copy}
   "features": {
     "ghcr.io/devcontainers/features/github-cli:1": {}
   },
   ```

1. Uncomment the `postCreateCommand` property and change its value to the command `composer install`.

   ```json{:copy}
   // Use 'postCreateCommand' to run commands after the container is created.
   "postCreateCommand": "composer install"
   ```

  The `devcontainer.json` file should now look similar to this, depending on which image you chose:

   ```json

>    // For format details, see https://aka.ms/devcontainer.json. For config options, see the
>    // README at: https://github.com/devcontainers/templates/tree/main/src/php
>    {
>      "name": "PHP",
>      // Or use a Dockerfile or Docker Compose file. More info: https://containers.dev/guide/dockerfile
>      "image": "mcr.microsoft.com/devcontainers/php:0-8.2",
> 
>      // Features to add to the dev container. More info: https://containers.dev/features.
>      // "features": {},
> 
>      // Configure tool-specific properties.
>      "customizations": {
>        // Configure properties specific to VS Code.
>        "vscode": {
>          "settings": {},
>          "extensions": [
>            "streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker",
>            "ikappas.composer"
>          ]
>        }
>      },
> 
>      // Use 'forwardPorts' to make a list of ports inside the container available locally.
>      // "forwardPorts": [8000],
> 
>      // Use 'portsAttributes' to set default properties for specific forwarded ports. More info: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/devcontainerjson-reference.
>      "portsAttributes": {
>        "8000": {
>          "label": "Hello Remote World",
>          "onAutoForward": "notify"
>        }
>      },
> 
>      // Use 'postCreateCommand' to run commands after the container is created.
>      "postCreateCommand": "composer install",
> 
>      // Uncomment to connect as root instead. More info: https://aka.ms/dev-containers-non-root.
>      // "remoteUser": "root"
>    }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   // For format details, see https://aka.ms/devcontainer.json. For config options, see the
   // README at: https://github.com/devcontainers/templates/tree/main/src/php
   {
     "name": "PHP",
     // Or use a Dockerfile or Docker Compose file. More info: https://containers.dev/guide/dockerfile
     "image": "mcr.microsoft.com/devcontainers/php:0-8.2",

     // Configure tool-specific properties.
     "customizations": {
       // Configure properties specific to VS Code.
       "vscode": {
         "extensions": [
           "ikappas.composer"
         ]
       }
     },

   // Use 'forwardPorts' to make a list of ports inside the container available locally.
   "forwardPorts": [
     8080
   ],
   "features": {
     "ghcr.io/devcontainers/features/github-cli:1": {}
   },

   // Use 'postCreateCommand' to run commands after the container is created.
   "postCreateCommand": "composer install"

   // Uncomment to connect as root instead. More info: https://aka.ms/dev-containers-non-root.
   // "remoteUser": "root"
}
```

   ```

{% data reusables.codespaces.save-changes %}
{% data reusables.codespaces.rebuild-command %}
{% indented_data_reference reusables.codespaces.rebuild-reason %}

   After the dev container is rebuilt, and your codespace becomes available again, the `postCreateCommand` will have been run, installing your Composer dependencies, and the "Composer" extension will be available for use.

## Step 4: Run your application

In the previous section, you used the `postCreateCommand` to install a set of packages via the `composer install` command. With the dependencies now installed, you can run the application.

1. In the Terminal of your codespace, enter `apache2ctl start`.

   <!-- ![Screenshot of running "npm start" in the Terminal. The final output reads "Running on http://0.0.0.0:3000."](/assets/images/help/codespaces/codespaces-npmstart.png) -->

1. When your project starts, you should see a "toast" notification message at the bottom right corner of {% data variables.product.prodname_vscode_shortname %}, telling you that your application is available on a forwarded port. To view the running application, click **Open in Browser**.

>    <!-- ![Screenshot of the port forwarding message, reading "Your application running on port 3000 is available." The "Open in Browser" button is also shown.](/assets/images/help/codespaces/codespaces-port3000-toast.png) -->

Reviewer: When I do this I get: 

```
AH00558: apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.0.1. Set the 'ServerName' directive globally to suppress this message
(13)Permission denied: AH00072: make_sock: could not bind to address [::]:80
(13)Permission denied: AH00072: make_sock: could not bind to address 0.0.0.0:80
no listening sockets available, shutting down
AH00015: Unable to open logs
Action 'start' failed.
The Apache error log may have more information.
```

I tried switching to root and adding "ServerName 127.0.0.1" to `/etc/apache2/apache2.conf` but I get further errors. 

We need to make sure the reader can step through these instructions easily and access a running app in the browser at the end, so this is going to need further work before we can add this article.
